# CS465-Full-Stack
## CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN
### Architecture
#### *Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).*
For the customer facing website I used Express HTML, this side of the project is a server-side rendered site that the customer will use to get information on travel packages, learn about the company, and contact the company to book trips. The Admin side of the project is a client-renderd site that uses Angular to create a single-page application that is used to maintain the customer site information. This side of the project allows you to add, edit, and remove trip packages on the customer facing website. This was done as a single-page application due to the responsiveness and user experience it provides for tasks like its main use. 

#### *Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?*
I used a NoSQL MongoDB database because of the format of this DB. In this project we are using JSON alot and it happens that JSON is also the document format for MongoDB. This fact makes it very easy to use both MongoDB and JavaScript together.
Another reason would be the flexibility of MongoDB, because MongoDB is a NoSQL database you are not locked into an inflexible schema which is perfect for this application, especially later down the road if more information is needed for new functionality or something similar.

### Functionality
#### *How is JSON different from JavaScript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and the backend development pieces?*
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation and is a format for data that can be easily shared between programs. JavaScript is a programming language and its JavaScript Object Literal notation is what JSON was inspired by. JSON ties together the front end and the backend development pieces because the data in the database I used (MongoDB), is in JSON. This makes it very easy to pass data from the database to the front end which is using JavaScript as the programming language because JavaScript has built in functionality to handle and understand JSON. This is also a reason to use MongoDB when working with JavaScript.

#### *Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.*
Starting with some base HTML files that I was given the first refactor I did was change these to Handlebars templates. One of the best examples of this was the header and footer for the site. This made it to where I could reuse this header and footer for each page with out actually rewriting or copy and pasting. This saves alot of time and work as it creates a reusable header and footer for all pages that would require that. Another refactor that I did was after the project was pretty much done and functioning, I went back through the project and implemented the login and create account portion of the project to add user authentication to the project as this site would need robust security as it will handle personal information and payment transactions in the future. This was done by generating and comparing JWTs (JSON Web Tokens) to verify logins.

### Testing
#### *Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.*
Methods for request and retrieval include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE in this project. The GET method is used in functions that are retrieveing a resource, the POST method is used when creating a new resourse such as adding a trip in the database, the PUT method is used when we are changing a resource such as updating a specific trip package for the application, and the DELETE method is used when removing a resource from the application such as deleting a trip package from the application. Endpoints are where an API recieves a request for a resource which can be diffrentiated by the method associated with the request and the url. An example of an endpoint in this project would be GET '/trips/:tripCode' this endpoint is a request to retrieve the trip specified by the tripCode parameter and show it to the user. Each of these endpoints should be secured, I have done that in this application by ensureing that you are only allowed to use these functions after you are logged in to the site with a verified account. This is done through the login endpoint which will check that you are a user and generate a JWT that is then used to verify that you are allowed to use the other endpoints in the application.

### Reflection
#### *How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?*
This course has helped me in reaching my professional goals as it is the first part in the last requirements for my degree in CS. There are many skills from this course that I have continued to hone throughout the course that will help me become a more marketable candidate in the field of Software Engineering. Some of these skills include GIT, GitHub, using different programming languages, frameworks, libraries, and tools such as JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Node, Angular, Express, and tools like MongoDB Compass and Postman. All of these things are very heavily used in the software engineering field and have added to my value as a desirable candidate for positions in this field.
